# Contributing to Ghostty

This document describes the process of contributing to Ghostty. It is intended
for anyone considering opening an **issue**, **discussion** or **pull request**.
For people who are interested in developing Ghostty and technical details behind
it, please check out our ["Developing Ghostty"](HACKING.md) document as well.

> [!NOTE]
>
> I'm sorry for the wall of text. I'm not trying to be difficult and I do
> appreciate your contributions. Ghostty is a personal project for me that
> I maintain in my free time. If you're expecting me to dedicate my personal
> time to fixing bugs, maintaining features, and reviewing code, I do kindly
> ask you spend a few minutes reading this document. Thank you. ❤️

## AI Assistance Notice

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> The Ghostty project allows AI-**assisted** _code contributions_, which
> must be properly disclosed in the pull request.

If you are using any kind of AI assistance while contributing to Ghostty,
**this must be disclosed in the pull request**, along with the extent to
which AI assistance was used (e.g. docs only vs. code generation).

The submitter must have also tested the pull request on all impacted
platforms, and it's **highly discouraged** to code for an unfamiliar platform
with AI assistance alone: if you only have a macOS machine, do **not** ask AI
to write the equivalent GTK code, and vice versa — someone else with more
expertise will eventually get to it and do it for you.

> [!WARNING]
> **Note that AI _assistance_ does not equal AI _generation_**. We require
> a significant amount of human accountability, involvement and interaction
> even within AI-assisted contributions. Contributors are required to be able
> to understand the AI-assisted output, reason with it and answer critical
> questions about it. Should a PR see no visible human accountability and
> involvement, or it is so broken that it requires significant rework to be
> acceptable, **we reserve the right to close it without hesitation**.

**In addition, we currently restrict AI assistance to code changes only.**
No AI-generated media, e.g. artwork, icons, videos and other assets is
allowed, as it goes against the methodology and ethos behind Ghostty.
While AI-assisted code can help with productive prototyping, creative
inspiration and even automated bugfinding, we have currently found zero
benefit to AI-generated assets. Instead, we are far more interested and
invested in funding professional work done by human designers and artists.
If you intend to submit AI-generated assets to Ghostty, sorry,
we are not interested.

Likewise, all community interactions, including all comments on issues and
discussions and all PR titles and descriptions **must be composed by a human**.
Community moderators and Ghostty maintainers reserve the right to mark
AI-generated responses as spam or disruptive content, and ban users who have
been repeatedly caught relying entirely on LLMs during interactions.

> [!NOTE]
> If your English isn't the best and you are currently relying on an LLM to
> translate your responses, don't fret — usually we maintainers will be able
> to understand your messages well enough. We'd like to encourage real humans
> to interact with each other more, and the positive impact of genuine,
> responsive yet imperfect human interaction more than makes up for any
> language barrier.
>
> Please write your responses yourself, to the best of your ability.
> If you do feel the need to polish your sentences, however, please use
> dedicated translation software rather than an LLM.
>
> We greatly appreciate it. Thank you. ❤️

Minor exceptions to this policy include trivial AI-generated tab completion
functionality, as it usually does not impact the quality of the code and
do not need to be disclosed, and commit titles and messages, which are often
generated by AI coding agents.

An example disclosure:

> This PR was written primarily by Claude Code.

Or a more detailed disclosure:

> I consulted ChatGPT to understand the codebase but the solution
> was fully authored manually by myself.

An example of a **problematic** disclosure (not having tested all platforms):

> I used Amp to code both macOS and GTK UIs, but I have not yet tested
> the GTK UI as I don't have a Linux setup.

Failure to disclose this is first and foremost rude to the human operators
on the other end of the pull request, but it also makes it difficult to
determine how much scrutiny to apply to the contribution.

In a perfect world, AI assistance would produce equal or higher quality
work than any human. That isn't the world we live in today, and in most cases
it's generating slop. I say this despite being a fan of and using them
successfully myself (with heavy supervision)!

Please be respectful to maintainers and disclose AI assistance.

## Quick Guide

### I'd like to contribute

[All issues are actionable](#issues-are-actionable). Pick one and start
working on it. Thank you. If you need help or guidance, comment on the issue.
Issues that are extra friendly to new contributors are tagged with
["contributor friendly"].

["contributor friendly"]: https://github.com/ghostty-org/ghostty/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3A%22contributor%20friendly%22

### I'd like to translate Ghostty to my language

We have written a [Translator's Guide](po/README_TRANSLATORS.md) for
everyone interested in contributing translations to Ghostty.
Translations usually do not need to go through the process of issue triage
and you can submit pull requests directly, although please make sure that
our [Style Guide](po/README_TRANSLATORS.md#style-guide) is followed before
submission.

### I have a bug! / Something isn't working

First, search the issue tracker and discussions for similar issues. Tip: also
search for [closed issues] and [discussions] — your issue might have already
been fixed!

> [!NOTE]
>
> If there is an _open_ issue or discussion that matches your problem,
> **please do not comment on it unless you have valuable insight to add**.
>
> GitHub has a very _noisy_ set of default notification settings which
> sends an email to _every participant_ in an issue/discussion every time
> someone adds a comment. Instead, use the handy upvote button for discussions,
> and/or emoji reactions on both discussions and issues, which are a visible
> yet non-disruptive way to show your support.

If your issue hasn't been reported already, open an ["Issue Triage"] discussion
and make sure to fill in the template **completely**. They are vital for
maintainers to figure out important details about your setup.

> [!WARNING]
>
> A _very_ common mistake is to file a bug report either as a Q&A or a Feature
> Request. **Please don't do this.** Otherwise, maintainers would have to ask
> for your system information again manually, and sometimes they will even ask
> you to create a new discussion because of how few detailed information is
> required for other discussion types compared to Issue Triage.
>
> Because of this, please make sure that you _only_ use the "Issue Triage"
> category for reporting bugs — thank you!

[closed issues]: https://github.com/ghostty-org/ghostty/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aclosed
[discussions]: https://github.com/ghostty-org/ghostty/discussions?discussions_q=is%3Aclosed
["Issue Triage"]: https://github.com/ghostty-org/ghostty/discussions/new?category=issue-triage

### I have an idea for a feature

Like bug reports, first search through both issues and discussions and try to
find if your feature has already been requested. Otherwise, open a discussion
in the ["Feature Requests, Ideas"] category.

["Feature Requests, Ideas"]: https://github.com/ghostty-org/ghostty/discussions/new?category=feature-requests-ideas

### I've implemented a feature

1. If there is an issue for the feature, open a pull request straight away.
2. If there is no issue, open a discussion and link to your branch.
3. If you want to live dangerously, open a pull request and
   [hope for the best](#pull-requests-implement-an-issue).

### I have a question which is neither a bug report nor a feature request

Open an [Q&A discussion], or join our [Discord Server] and ask away in the
`#help` forum channel.

Do not use the `#terminals` or `#development` channels to ask for help —
those are for general discussion about terminals and Ghostty development
respectively. If you do ask a question there, you will be redirected to
`#help` instead.

> [!NOTE]
> If your question is about a missing feature, please open a discussion under
> the ["Feature Requests, Ideas"] category. If Ghostty is behaving
> unexpectedly, use the ["Issue Triage"] category.
>
> The "Q&A" category is strictly for other kinds of discussions and do not
> require detailed information unlike the two other categories, meaning that
> maintainers would have to spend the extra effort to ask for basic information
> if you submit a bug report under this category.
>
> Therefore, please **pay attention to the category** before opening
> discussions to save us all some time and energy. Thank you!

[Q&A discussion]: https://github.com/ghostty-org/ghostty/discussions/new?category=q-a
[Discord Server]: https://discord.gg/ghostty

## General Patterns

### Issues are Actionable

The Ghostty [issue tracker](https://github.com/ghostty-org/ghostty/issues)
is for _actionable items_.

Unlike some other projects, Ghostty **does not use the issue tracker for
discussion or feature requests**. Instead, we use GitHub
[discussions](https://github.com/ghostty-org/ghostty/discussions) for that.
Once a discussion reaches a point where a well-understood, actionable
item is identified, it is moved to the issue tracker. **This pattern
makes it easier for maintainers or contributors to find issues to work on
since _every issue_ is ready to be worked on.**

If you are experiencing a bug and have clear steps to reproduce it, please
open an issue. If you are experiencing a bug but you are not sure how to
reproduce it or aren't sure if it's a bug, please open a discussion.
If you have an idea for a feature, please open a discussion.

### Pull Requests Implement an Issue

Pull requests should be associated with a previously accepted issue.
**If you open a pull request for something that wasn't previously discussed,**
it may be closed or remain stale for an indefinite period of time. I'm not
saying it will never be accepted, but the odds are stacked against you.

Issues tagged with "feature" represent accepted, well-scoped feature requests.
If you implement an issue tagged with feature as described in the issue, your
pull request will be accepted with a high degree of certainty.

> [!NOTE]
>
> **Pull requests are NOT a place to discuss feature design.** Please do
> not open a WIP pull request to discuss a feature. Instead, use a discussion
> and link to your branch.
